Matthew Burkart
## Fyw Final Writing Assignment

  When I received the notification indicating that I had been placed into the "Digital Reading and Digital Writing" FYW, I was extremely nervous and somewhat curious as to how I was placed into this FYW class.  I have little to no skill with computers, and I had no clue what to expect.  I got even more anxious when I walked into our first class and the professor began shooting off words like, "Git", "Github", "Digital Machine", "Atom", and "Scala".  I did not know if my classmates understood what our professor was talking about, but I was lost.  I had no idea what these words meant, but I now understand that these words are important to my future.

  Atom combined with Git is an extremely neat and efficient machine. With individuals around the globe able to access different information, it is quicker and more straightforward than emailing files and documents.  My father is a lawyer, and their firm could benefit from these systems. Text editors are more organized, can work with a much larger file size when compared with word processors, and can be uploaded to the internet in seconds using Github.  When using Atom in class, I found it rarely lagged or crashed, unlike Microsoft Word, which has crashed on me four times this semester. Github made sharing information with our professor easier and more productive.  I could understand how Github would benefit a large group or organization working on a project or sharing information.  Although I was suspicious early in the semester, I found Atom and Github were not extremely difficult to use. With vast amounts of packages that can be downloaded, one with knowledge of Atom can create different documents using different packages.  Atom also allows better works cited formatting and is more user-friendly  These systems will stand out on a resume because Github and Atom are not widely taught in high schools and colleges.

I found the historical nature of the class to be very interesting.  Our class learned new information on a wide variety of important ancient figures, and I enjoyed researching about my topic.  I am considering a history double major, and this new information can surely help me in the future.  I was extremely happy when I learned our class would feature prominent and important ancient characters and history.  I not only learned plenty about the ancient world, but I also learned about new websites and databases that can be extremely important for finding information and making information more presentable.  I found geojson.io to be an extremely valuable tool.  The website is not only user-friendly, but contains vast knowledge of the ancient world.  In addition, users are able to save their files to Github, which makes access to information even easier.  The historical nature of the class helped me read and analyze data and writing as well.  When I first read Plutarch and Nepos's introductions, I was incredibly lost.  Once we went over it in class, took it slow, and analyzed sentence by sentence, word by word, I began to understand Plutarch's and Nepos's writing styles.  This information and practice will help me in the future when reading more complex writing styles.  We also were able to see two opposing word choices when analyzing Nepos and Plutarch.  Plutarch's writing was more formal and fancier.  Nepos words were straightforward and plain.  Analyzing these works helped me realize that when writing a document, especially a long one, using simpler and straightforward word choice made the document more appealing and easier to comprehend.  I have always been taught to use fancy and difficult word choices, but I have found that using those may not always be the best option.  In addition, this class was the only class I had to present information in front of the class.  Presenting, especially in front of peers I am not extremely well acquainted with, was extremely valuable for public speaking in the future.  I was nervous, but by seeing how others presented, including my professor, I saw examples of how a calm, well-spoked manner can go a long way in the world of presenting.  The presentation also made me analyze what data to present and what to leave out.  Due to the time restriction, we had to learn to cut straight to the point, which was valuable to learn for future presentations, especially at a conference.

These tools will impress in a job interview.  I learned presentation skills, new programs to make sharing data easier, and I even learned a little bit of programming, which looks impressive on a resume.  These skills and the new information will help me stand out in an interview because they are not widely known and taught.  I have always been interested in becoming an entrepreneur, and I can further implement these programs and systems in to my company to allow greater efficiency and sharing of information.  All these skills added together will help present me as a good candidate for any job, whether or not these tools are used.  Knowing these tools shows I am willing to learn new ways of doing things in order to improve myself and my abilities.

In conclusion, this class taught me many important life skills, new methods of doing research, and new, more efficient programs and systems.  Taking all into account, the skills I have learned in this class will help me in an interview with an employer and life in general.
